# Streaming Data

This site provides documentation for this project.
Use the navigation to explore module-specific materials.

## How-To Guide

Many instructions are common to all our projects.

See
[⭐ **Workflow: Apply Example**](https://denisecase.github.io/pro-analytics-02/workflow-b-apply-example-project/)
to get these projects running on your machine.

## Project Documentation Pages (docs/)

- **Home** - this documentation landing page
- **Project Instructions** - instructions specific to this module
- **Your Files** - how to copy from examples and make them yours
- **Glossary** - project terms and concepts
- **API** - autogenerated look at the code interface

## Custom Project

### Dataset

Describe the dataset used by your Kafka producer.

Include:

- the name of the dataset file
  - Sales_csv
- what kind of records it contains
  - Data about sales orders
- which fields are included in each record
  - order_id,datetime,region_id,currency_code,product_id,unit_price,quantity,is_online,customer_id,is_new_customer,device_type,payment_method,referral_source,discount_code,customer_note
- whether you used the original sales dataset or modified it
  - I used the original

### Kafka Messages

Describe the messages sent through Kafka.

Include:

- what your producer sends
  - messages about sales data
- which Kafka topic you used
  - I used product_sales-case
- what message key you used, if any
  - I did not add a message key
- whether you changed the message fields
  - I did not change the message fields

### Consumer Processing

Describe what your consumer receives and does with each message.

Include:

- what your consumer receives from Kafka
  - The consumer receives messages about sales data
- how many messages it consumes
  - It can consume 1000 messages
- what it logs or prints
  - It logs information about the messages it receives.
- if it writes records to a CSV file
  - It writes a CSV output file to record the information in the messages.
- if it processes or filters selected fields (be specific)
  - This consumer does not filter, but includes all headers.
### Experiments

Phase 04
  - The small change I made was changing the consumer time out to 20 seconds. I wanted to see if that would change the number of messages received.
Phase 05
  - For phase 05 I changed the topic used. I unfortunately did not change the output file name and my phase 04 output file was re-written.

### Results

Phase 04
  - Nothing changed as a result of changing the time out.
Phase 05
  - The results were an output file with only 3 rows of data instead of the originaly 6 used by the streaming-02-case topic.

### Interpretation

Explain what the Kafka streaming workflow showed you.

Include:

- what changed from the original example
  - The topic changed which resulted in a different number of messages received.
- what you learned from watching messages move through Kafka
  - The steps build on eachother. It's important to check all scripts when making changes.
- what the stream could tell a business or organization
  - The stream can give all possible information to a business, like where are orders coming in from the most, in real time, and what is being ordered.
- what business intelligence was gained from the consumed messages
  - The consumed messages give an overview of real time stats. This can help the company make informed decisions in marketing which products are being viewed the most. 
